\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding ISO-8859-1
@c This file uses the @command command introduced in Texinfo 4.0.
@c %**start of header
@setfilename libProgressBar.info
@settitle A library to manage progress bars in C++: libProgressBar
@c finalout
@setchapternewpage odd
@iftex
@afourlatex
@internalpagesizes{247mm}{170mm}{-5.4mm}{-5.4mm}{5mm}{10mm}{297mm}{210mm}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@firstparagraphindent insert
@end ifinfo
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 1.0.0
@set author DoccY
@set mail @email{alban.mancheron@@inria.fr}
@set authormail @value{author} @value{mail}
@set Copyrights Copyright © 2007 -- Université des Antilles et de la Guyane/Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique
@iftex
@clear mail
@clear Copyrights
@set mail <@email{alban.mancheron@@inria.fr}>
@set Copyrights Copyright @copyright{} 2007 -- Université des Antilles et de la Guyane/Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique
@end iftex

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{libProgressBar} library.

@value{Copyrights}

Author: @value{authormail}

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title @command{libProgressBar}
@subtitle library to manage progress bars.
@author by @value{authormail}


@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@value{Copyrights}

Author: @value{authormail}

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.

@end titlepage
@headings on

@c All the nodes can be updated using the EMACS command
@c texinfo-every-node-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-e.
@node Top, Instructions, (dir), (dir)

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{libProgressBar} library.

@end ifinfo

@c All the menus can be updated with the EMACS command
@c texinfo-all-menus-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-a.
@menu
* Instructions::                How to read this manual. 
* Copying::                     How you can copy and share @command{libProgressBar}.
* Overview::                    Preliminary information.
* Example::                      An example of the use of @command{libProgressBar}.
* Problems::                    Reporting bugs.
* Concept Index::               Index of concepts.
@end menu

@node Instructions, Copying, Top, Top
@chapter How to Read This Manual

@cindex reading
@cindex manual, how to read
@cindex how to read
You will find in the Copying section the GNU Lesser General Public License. 
In the Overview section, is given a quick description about what does
@command{libProgressBar}. Then, you will have an example of use.

Indeed, we'll hope you having a good fun using @command{libProgressBar}.

@node Copying, Overview, Instructions, Top
@chapter Copying

@cindex copying
@cindex GNU LGPL
@include lgpl.texinfo

@node Overview, Example, Copying, Top
@chapter Overview
@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

TODO

@node Example, Problems, Overview, Top
@chapter Example of use
@cindex example
@cindex usage

TODO

@node Problems, Concept Index, Example, Top
@chapter Reporting Bugs
@cindex bugs
@cindex problems

If you find a bug in @command{libProgressBar}, please send electronic mail to
@value{mail}.  Include the version number.
Also include in your message a decription of the encountered problem.@refill

@sp 1

If you have other questions, comments or suggestions about
@command{lbProgressBar}, contact the author via electronic mail to
@value{mail}.
The author will try to help you out, although he may not have time to
fix your problems.

@node Concept Index,  , Problems, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp

@bye
